Good evening. Oh, Alex, you're here early.
Beau.
Um, no, Alex, you are on mute, it seems,
so your microphone's not working.
Can you hear me?
I can hear you.
Okay, um, Alex.
Something's going on. Apparently,
Alex was talking all this while,
but the microphone wasn't picking
anything up, which is unfortunate.
Just wait a couple of minutes for her to
rejoin the session.
While Alex does that,
how are you guys doing? How was,
how was last week?
Yep, Alex, you have your hand up.
I've been a little bit under the pump
personally. This P3, sorry,
this current task, P3, is that,
that's due this Sunday.
Mhm.
I haven't actually started it yet because
I've been trying to catch up from
Mhm.
just having so much troubleshooting with
all the systems throughout the first week
Yep.
and then trying to relearn the process or
trying to learn something that I've never
done before. So I'm just wondering,
like I put the post out in the teams
earlier,
how long would it reasonably take someone
for this next part to complete?
Do I still have time before Sunday?
I should be requesting the extension now.
Look, to be honest,
the answers you get will be like very
mixed, right?
Because it is quite straightforward in my
opinion. Now again,
that is coming from me.
I've been doing this for like a very,
very long time. So if you're starting out,
if you are a fresh programmer,
it might take slightly longer, but...
The coding is not what might take time.
The learning journey might take you a
while, right?
So I would say start as soon as possible
and start documenting everything.
You should be able to do it before Sunday.
Now, the thing is, when we say, yeah,
when we say complete by Sunday,
Not that brilliant.
it actually also means that you need to
make sure things are also signed off.
But give it a go.
Okay, so yeah,
because I feel like once I request an
extension,
then I feel like I'll have to request an
extension on every single task after that.
Not really, I mean,
try to submit it as soon as possible and
you should either get some feedback.
Okay,
are we working on that in this lecture or
are we working on next week's something
or other?
Well, that I'll leave for Alex to answer.
Alex, you're here.
Fantastic.
Yep, can you guys hear me now?
See, that's a nice segue.
Sorry,
I was talking and it's very quiet and
then that's something went wrong. Okay,
cool. Sorry, guys.
Yeah.
I was, I was,
I was about to send that cricket emoji,
not an emoji, to the GIF, GIF,
whatever you want to call it.
Yeah, sorry about that. Yeah, I'm back.
So yeah, all good now.
I was asking how is everyone going and
this is week 3.
We do have a bit of agenda there because
in week 5,
I believe you all know that we got a test
here in week 5. Ben, you got
Yes, it's not really a question.
It's just an observation. Alex,
Anything?
your camera is off if you are not aware.
Right, yeah, yeah.
I was apologising before because my
laptop went off and I don't have a camera
on my desktop. So apologies for that.
Ah.
No problem.
I'll either sort out a camera or sort off
my laptop next week. Yeah, apologies.
No, it's okay.
Well, I'll turn mine off as well.
All good, all good. Yeah,
so going back in our agenda, in week 5,
you all know that we will have our test
one.
Our test one is not a hurdle for passing
this unit.
But please attend test one just to make
sure that take it as a drill to your to a
final hurdle test, because tasks,
especially for online students,
our our test it will happen on Cloud
Deakin, so it it will be the.
the other side not on OnTrack.
So I hope at least you attend test one so
you know where everythings are.
Don't worry if just in case you failed
test one, you will have.
the chance,
you will have the chance to complete a
follow-up practise test. You are on time.
So for test one, there's no receipt.
You don't need to redo.
If you do fail your test one,
just resubmit with a follow-up practise
test. And the topics covered will
be from P2 to P4, basically running,
compiling a programme to control flows.
So, and this no credit task included.
So all the tests will only cover pass
level tasks. Sam, you got a question?
Oh, unmute you. Oh, sorry,
I unmuted you again. Oh.
Yep.
Hello, are you talking?
Um, Sam, we can't hear you. Oh, wait,
hang on, let me. Okay, Sam's unmuted.
Yep.
Thank you, Sam.
If you have a question and you're not
able to your mic's not working,
you can type it out over here.
Yep.
Jeremy, you got a question as well?
Yeah, thanks for that.
Just a quick question.
I'm an external student.
How does the testing work?
Yep.
Can you walk me through that? Obviously,
we'll do the practise tests and stuff,
but yeah,
just is it a just an online test that I
take? Is it a lockdown browser?
Like I just want to know a little bit
more about it.
Yeah,
so you all will receive an instruction to
join how to join the test.
It will it will be quite not not
dedicated to one of the browsers or
something.
It will be it will be on the cloud Deakin
and you can download a
test paper and in the same place that you
downloaded the test paper,
you will upload it in two hours.
So once you download your test paper,
you need to submit your test in the
dedicated period of time.
So if you don't start
downloading that, it will be there.
So the detailed instruction will be sent
out by the unit chair. When it's sent out,
we will also send a notification.
So if you haven't received any e-mail
after it's been announced,
Please either cheque the announcements
sub-channel or reach out to us.
Now, on the just to follow up,
after after we've downloaded the test and
And you?
we've put in,
it's not an invigilated testing
environment, I assume.
Do we have a follow-up interview based on
that test and our results or anything
like that,
or do we have to reach out to tutors or
are they gonna?
tell us how we did.
I'm just curious how the next process is.
YEE.
Yep, so once your test is finished,
the feedback will be posted on OnTrack.
So you will notice that there's a test
one task on OnTrack.
Once your test paper is marked,
your feedback will be posted on OnTrack.
So you will either receive a complete,
that means you pass your
test one. If you receive a resubmit,
it means that you haven't passed this
test one and you will be sent a follow-up
test, practise test for you to complete.
And there's no interview,
any sort of things for test one,
but for test 2.
we do have an interview followed by that.
That's only for test 2.
So more details will be,
we'll cover that one test 2 is
approaching.
So test one is more like a practise test
for test 2. And next week, because
Thank you, Alex.
Oh, good.
Thanks for raising that question.
And I believe other students will be
curious too. And next week we will cover,
we'll go through the practise tests
together as well.
So recommend you guys to have a go before
the seminar so we can
When we go through the questions on the
practise test,
it will be easier to follow.
So we'll make sure that you guys are
prepared for both of the tests.
And.
Looking at Sam's question,
is test scheduled a particular time for
online students? It won't,
so it's sort of it will be on.
on a day, you will have the whole day,
that test will be available for download
for the whole day.
And anytime you are free, download a test,
start doing it,
and submit it within the two hours window.
I'm not sure,
I'm not sure when exactly that would
happen. I will,
but please double cheque the announcement
sub-channel.
It could be on one of the work days.
Because I remember last trimester,
it was on a Friday.
Um...
Half day Friday, half day Saturday.
That's from last trimester.
So it should be all right.
Just in case if you really don't have any
time to finish the test,
please let us know and we will adjust the
time maybe for test 2 as well.
Because for test one,
if you really can't make it, you still...
You can make it up by completing the
follow-up practise test,
if that makes sense.
Yeah,
it will be during a day hour and night
hour.
So it will be there for around 24 hours
like that. Yeah.
So as long as you have time,
whenever you are available, just do that.
If you are on-campus students,
we have to give that in class.
If you are on-campus students,
on your start timetable,
you should have the test time in your
timetable. If you don't have,
please ask your seminar tutors. Yes,
for on-campus students, you must sit.
The assigned time in the classroom.
Because for on-campus students,
the test is supervised and later you
don't have to do the interview.
That's the difference between online test
and on-campus test.
But you don't get a truce.
Apologies for that.
Whichever course you are,
whichever campus you are enrolled to,
Please attend that, that test.
We ordered has to be shown to give us
idea.
No previous test tools will be given,
but practise test will be given.
The practise test is very,
very close to the real test.
You will be surprised how close it is. So
I believe after test one,
because we will go through the practise
test on week 4 and you will have a goal
by yourself on week 5 after all the all
these processes,
you will now have a clearer.
understanding of what things will be like
on test 2. Similarly, we will,
because test 2 happens on week 9,
so on week 8,
we will go through a practise test for
test 2 on week 8 as well.
So everything will happen exactly the
same how we prepare for test one.
So it should be fine. It should be fine.
Relax.
It's as long as you finish all the past
task, past level tasks,
it should be fairly easy for you.
Just a little bit of things to remember
and that's it.
Not a lot of things for you to really
have to remember.
Okay,
and is there any other questions around
the test?
All right, and if not, thank you.
All good.
Just reiterate the feedback will be on
track.
So the test will happen on Cloud Deakin,
but the feedback will be on track.
This will be the same for both test one
and test 2.
We will get familiar with this whole
process.
And we went through the reflection
examples and also the learning journey
examples.
I don't think we have to do that again.
But just if you have any questions
related to that, after this seminar,
we'll do a little bit of demo and we go
to the one-on-one help session if you
still have time around this.
please join our session and hop on a call
with us. We will explain to you.
So I won't spend more time on this for
all of us.
If there's any individual questions,
we will do it individually. All right.
And about extension, yeah, Alex,
you got a question?
Yeah, just a quick one. After submitting,
say, like those tasks in two to four,
Yep.
M.
how long after was it that was supposed
to receive feedback? I mean,
Mhm.
mine came back correct,
but I've noticed I haven't had any
feedback.
Or am I just looking in the wrong spots
as to how I did? Well,
all I know is that it was passed,
which I'm great, but I was just...
Um,
would have liked to know is there
anything I could be improved on or
anything else?
Right,
so you should receive a feedback within
five business days.
That's the current rule.
So if you haven't received any feedback
within five business days,
Okay.
please let us know because we don't want
to pull your legs on future tasks.
Yeah, yeah,
is that is that in OnTrack or is that by
So yeah.
e-mail or is that on cloud sync?
It's on OnTrack,
so in the same place you submit the tasks,
Okay.
you will see that there's a chat box on
the right hand side.
We will provide feedback on that.
Yeah, yeah,
it's still empty for the moment.
I'll cheque it again,
but thank you anyway.
No, all good. If you got time,
we can call,
we can give you a call after the seminar,
and so we can have a look,
Sure.
see what happens. All right, no worries.
Thanks for the question, and
Okay, yep, thank you.
Just in case you fall behind a little bit,
please note that you can request
extension from OnTrack.
You will receive an automatic 7 day
extension,
but it has to be done before the due date.
So if the due date is missed already,
and the request extension button may not
be.
be there anymore or you would not be able
to put in any more dates for extension.
So please use that if you feel like you
are falling behind and try to use that
extension period to try to catch up.
Yeah,
5 business days is quite a long time.
It's literally a week,
but we try to aim for a quicker turnover,
but sometimes the task can be accumulated.
People sometimes tend to submit three,
four tasks at a time. So if that happens,
it could slow a little bit down.
And I think you all may...
noticed that there was a glitch on
OnTrack for the past week.
If you encounter any difficulties in
uploading your tasks,
that applies to us as well.
So it could affect the marking speed a
little bit, but we are catching up.
So if for any of you guys,
if you haven't got any
haven't received feedback on time,
please let us know. And we can give you,
we can also provide some feedback in the
seminar as well.
So we'll try to not make the seminar A
dedicated place for just providing
feedbacks,
but if anything goes beyond the five day
turnover time, we will help.
Okay,
and if you happen to have a task that is
due and you submitted it,
it turns to feedback time exceeded,
which is the red button,
a red icon you will see.
Please do submit it.
We won't be able to give any feedback
saying it's complete or not in Help Ups
or during this.
Seminars, but...
you can go to the seminar, watch out,
see our demos and try to learn it and
make sure that it is correct.
Then you have a chance to pass that task.
So still, even if you submit late,
please submit it.
Alrighty, so...
And if it's a few minutes later on the
week, have like a Dior HD.
Well...
Even for, I mean, for past tasks,
if you see the feedbacks we are giving,
we try to give some constructive feedback,
not just say it is past or not past.
We still try to figure out what you have
learned because it's still.
different based on everyone's experience.
So we need to look at that and provide
feedbacks according to it.
So I don't think, to be honest,
I don't think marking path task is.
easier than marking distinction or high
distinction task. That's the fact. Yeah.
And yes,
we try not to hit that five business day.
line,
we'll try to provide feedbacks as soon as
we can.
If you have any questions around that,
feel free to reach out either to me,
to Ben, or to the unit chair.
We normally try to get it done as early
as possible.
Like my goal is to clear off my inbox by
midnight that same day. But yeah, like,
Yeah.
you know,
please do understand that it may not be
possible if you're one of my students,
but yeah,
like generally that's what every other
tutor would say.
We'll try to finish stuff in the same day,
but if it takes like a day or so,
Well,
that's why we have the deadline of five
days, right? So it means it's a maximum,
right? And hopefully,
you should be getting your feedbacks in
like, we know 48 hours. Now,
when I say 48 hours,
it means business hours. So yeah,
business days, two days, right?
Alex.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. We usually try to,
for me, I don't clear the inbox every day.
I do one the other day.
So it's a bit different working pattern
for each different tutors. So yeah.
But yeah,
Yeah.
if you do have any concerns with around
that, please let us know. We always
Our team is always quite easy to reach,
to be honest. So I wouldn't think,
Yeah.
it hasn't been a huge concern for us yet,
through all these years,
while we're changing to OnTrack marking.
So yes, do let us, please do let us know.
if there's any impact on you around that.
Thank you.
OK,
so if is there any questions related to
Yeah.
feedback and the extension request?
Nothing, it seems. Sam,
other subject had two plus week response
time. Well, that is a bit too long,
so like I would normally recommend
speaking with like the unit chair,
you know,
and they might have like a different
guideline, right?
It depends on the task and depends on,
you know, what you're working with,
but generally speaking, like with OnTrack,
this has been my experience as well,
like in the past.
Five business days is 3 to five business
days is what we normally kind of expect.
Passage, yeah.
Yeah, 5, yeah,
two weeks is like a bit too much.
Yeah.
YEE.
Alrighty, um,
so if there's no question related to that,
Yeah.
let's go on.
All righty,
so if you're feeling a bit lost or
overwhelmed,
the best place to go is always seminar or
Help Hub tutor. So last time we,
I'm pretty sure that you all know how to
join a Help Hub.
I hope you have already done so if you
have a question.
I really, I really recommend that.
That's probably the best place for you to
get some help. All right,
and there's a past session you can join.
It's also available on the unit in the
announcement,
so you can find the link available.
And yeah,
that's so the past times table is Monday
6 P.m. and Friday 1 P.m.
So that's the one for SIT 102.
There are past sessions for other units
as well. Feel free to use them.
Alrighty, so today, oh, Alex,
you got a question, sorry.
Yeah, the past sessions,
they're the only two available,
Yep.
aren't they? Because on Monday 6pm,
this class also clashes with my 1A2 class,
Yeah.
and then there's also that 6pm session.
And on the 1pm, I'm at work,
business hours. So
Yeah.
There's no other past time table,
is there?
Because it was promoted so well on the
Deakin website. I was like, oh,
YEE.
Yeah.
I'd love to join that, but it's just like,
let's put all three at the exact same
time on a Monday.
It's just never going to work for me
anyway.
Yeah,
that's and another thing is past the past
the past session is hosted by your peer.
So happy for you guys to form your own
study groups.
So you can you can run for those students
Yeah.
who are targeting a higher.
this is a good time for you to offer some
engagement in the unit.
So offer your help to your peer students.
So feel free to form your own little
student study groups and all.
Organise a session, organise a time,
and you can do that.
And if you get any questions,
you can put them together and ask
in Help Hub time, seminar time,
whenever one of you guys have time to
join the seminar or Help Hub.
So I would say studying group is a good
way. If you can't make those,
happy for you guys to organise your own.
Uh, sort of study group, right?
Good.
Okay, thank you. And okay, today's focus,
let's come back to today's focus.
So much for admin stuff.
So now we're going to do some coding
stuff, very little bit.
We will go for a demonstration of the key
concepts from P2 and P3.
especially around variables,
the entry-level concepts, the very basics,
and maybe touch a little bit on P4.
I'm not sure. Let's see how it goes.
And you can follow us along and answer
questions, interact with us.
And if you have anything that you would
like me
or Ben to cover,
feel free to raise that in the chat. Yeah,
Yeah.
we were happy to cover that as well.
Oh.
Actually, yeah,
before we jump into P2 and P2,
maybe even touching on P4, right? I mean,
like,
we already had two weeks worth of tasks,
right,
and work that you guys have been doing.
Is there anything you'd like us to cover
before there are any problems that you
might have been facing,
or if you have any issues that's not been
addressed yet?
I would say now is like a really good
time to raise that.
I'll let you know after I read the
requirements. I haven't started yet,
Hey.
No problem, yeah, yeah, so we, yeah,
we got one.
in all honesty.
Can you go through a bit on the hand
execution method? See, perfect. Alex,
maybe we can stop with that and then...
Hand execution, yeah,
I can do a little bit that after, yeah.
Yeah, so very.
Very straightforward one, like, um,
but yeah, yeah.
Yeah, very sure, yeah.
Cool, we'll do a little bit of that, yeah.
Alright.
Awesome.
Awesome, thank you.
And one last thing that if you want to
withdraw from the unit, no problem.
Please feel free to do so.
Or you can chat with us first to see how
your progress is,
what is your time management, any issues.
You can discuss it with us.
Please make sure that you do it.
If you want to withdraw,
please do it before the census date and
you will get a full refund of your
tuitions.
Yeah, Alex.
Yeah, just in regards to that,
say if we did withdraw that unit before
Mhm.
31st of March,
the tasks that we have submitted,
M.
would they still count if we go, you know,
enrol back into that unit later down the
track?
No, so, exactly,
you have to do them again, yeah.
You have to DOM again is OK.
And we wouldn't be able to reuse what we
did before because that would be
plagiarizing, right?
Exactly, yes.
And high chances are there it will be
Right, okay.
changed somehow. It will not be exactly,
may not be exactly the same with the
Okay. Okay.
trimester you joined. Yeah, yeah.
Sure.
Yeah, thank you.
Okay, cool. So let's go on.
Let me share my...
Screen here.
OK, cool.
Can you guys see my screen?
So I have one project added already.
Oh, sorry. Yeah, awesome. Thank you.
So this is the,
Yep, I'm gonna say it.
I've taken that code from one of the
tasks that we can copy and paste.
I run a code. Actually, we'll do.
Another one, so...
Well, take it.
Sir, can I ask you to mute yourself? Oh,
I'll actually, I'll mute you. Oh,
Someone say that.
thank you. Yeah. All righty. So
Can you please let me know if I want to
start a.NET project? What do I need to do?
Yes, so when we create a new project,
we use.NET new console. And see,
when we start a new project, if we do.
NET new console,
it will create a list of project files
for you. So usually what we want to do,
we usually want to create a new folder
for that. So
Okay, anyone let me know the command to.
Create a new folder.
Yeah, awesome. Thank you. So,
MKDR as it's very straightforward is make
new directory,
so we can name it as week through demo
week three. Yeah.
One good thing, right? I mean, yes, like,
it's really good to see people, like,
you know, giving answers of, yeah,
I would actually strongly recommend any
braves also in this channel to actually
unmute yourself and you know,
maybe give out the answer,
because Alex and I might not be looking
Yes.
at the at the comments.
I am looking at, but yes,
it will be quicker to speak it out. Yeah,
Yeah.
happy for you to do any form. Right. Okay.
And then we will go into that,
Okay.
go into that folder,
because if we just do, say,
if I just want to create a new council,
we'll create that in the
current directory in a demo here.
It won't create directly into the folder
we make.
We need to change the directory inside
the folder. So how am I able to do that?
I think I already, yeah, exactly.
DI.
Thank you.
I think I'm already giving out an answer
because CD is exactly as change directory.
and we can go, can type half of it,
and if there's no conflicts between other
folders. So see,
we have a demo week three,
we have a week three folder.
So if we start with W and we hit the tab
key in your keyboard,
it will automatically fill the rest of it
for you. And if we,
because the demo week 3 folder start with
a D and we hit D and we hit tab,
then it automatically fill that for you.
So I use that to just avoid because my
typing is horrible.
So now we go into demo week 3.
So now we use the.NET.
New console to create a new project.
Friday, it will create all for you,
and what would be the command that we
need to do if we want to add the splash
kit to and we need to be able to use
splash kit library?
Was it a new splash pit?
YEE.
Oh, add package slash kit. Sorry,
was this that? Yeah.
How do I, exactly, exactly, yeah,
because if we want to use the methods in
the library,
we need to 1st add that package to our
project. So we do dot net at, oh, sorry,
at.
Package.
Flash kids ready.
Now,
when you go to week three's folder and
you go here,
you will see that you have a package that
includes Splash Kit.
So we can make sure that we have that
available.
And we have a programme that we can use.
So
Now we have a project and we have,
because for now we don't need to do,
back in the very,
very low level of programming, you know,
computers,
all programmes are made from zero and
ones.
And apparently when you do software
engineering, you don't want to start
everything from zero and one.
It will take you forever for you to be
able to print this hello world to a
computer, right?
So there are ready to use things that you
can use to print this hello world,
like we use
this console red line and we put whatever
we want to print to the console.
And you don't need to do 0101012 to the
binary programming too in order to print
that. So in order to do so,
you need to tell the computer where to
find
these pre-made functions that you want to
use.
So the place we store the list of the
list of pre-made functions is called
Library,
which is Splash Kit is an example.
You can use
Splash Kit library,
so you can call all the functions that is
has been pre-made by the Splash Kit
developers. Does it make sense?
Okay, I hope he makes this. Yep, awesome.
Thank you. So, Sam, you got a question?
Yes, yes, yes.
Yeah, I do. I just wanted to clarify.
Mhm.
This, uh...
Dot net like adding package step.
It's not necessary for C is it?
Yep.
It's just like a C# thing.
Yes, it's slightly different.
You do have to,
if you want to use certain functions from
a library, for C# add package, yes,
it's for.NET project like this.
And we need to use this combined with the
add package splash kit. Yes, for C,
No need, but yes,
if we still need each user library,
there's another way to reference to the
library, if that makes sense.
So it will be another list of commands,
another set of, yep.
YEE.
Is.
Do you need to do any like command line
stuff there or is it good enough to just
go hash include splash kit dot H for C?
I'm just trying to figure out like...
For C, yeah.
I've only gone through that set of steps
once and all of my code is working fine.
Mm.
Yeah.
And I'm not sure if that's just because
of like the nested folders that I'm using
for my code repository or...
Yep, so for C#,
I think the answer is already there if
you have finished task to P2, so...
Can I ask you guys a question coming back
to C? If you want to run a code, so for C,
right, if we want to,
if I want to run the program, I use.
NET run, right?
And Sam, that's the question for you too.
For C,
how would I be able to run the programme
to print this? What should I do?
It's a bit different, right?
Okay, yeah, yeah. Well,
you would compile it and then during that
Exactly.
compilation step,
you would link the splash kit.
Exactly.
Exactly, exactly.
So you know the answer already.
Yeah.
So it's a bit different,
but you do all refer to need to refer to
the library. You need to use that.
So in splash in.NET C# projects,
we use this.NET add package splash kit.
For C,
when we try to use the library methods,
and we were doing the dash L splash kit.
If we can,
I'll actually quickly go through from
here as well, so...
For C, when we write the code,
when we have a code file like this for C,
it's a bit different. We don't use run.
We need to compile it first.
When we compile it,
we turn into something that computer,
turn your code,
translate this code into something that
computers can.
execute. So we use this compiler,
the CLAN compiler,
and compile the code file you've written,
and make an output file,
then using the library,
which is Splashkit.
Then you have an executable,
which is called hello.
The executable is something like a
program.
like a game, you double click, it runs,
right? Something like that.
But for the executable you made,
you can't just double click to run it.
You need to use dot slash followed by the
name of the executable that you just made.
Then
you can run your program.
So the whole process becomes a little bit
different compared to C and C.
And if you are interested,
there's a lot of resources around
compiling. To be honest,
every file needs to be compiled, but
It will be compiled in a different ways,
so of that's another.
background story if you are interested.
Yeah,
I might need to go back and dive a little
deeper on the.NET framework because I've..
.
I feel like I've just overlooked that.
I've just been...
No, all good, ALI.
Writing in C and just compiling it.
Everything's been working fine so far,
Yeah, yeah.
yeah.
But that's, yeah, that's good.
So if you're interested, have a read.
If you don't, if you're not,
if you think that's too much too
overwhelming, just go through the journey.
And the more you learn, actually,
the more you understand and something,
when you're looking back,
something becomes really easy to
understand. But when you at that point,
it may be a bit overwhelming. So
The way we recommend you guys to do is
just keep moving and write a lot of codes,
do a lot of practice,
and if there's minor issues that you
don't understand, feel free to ignore it,
have a bit of read, and ignore it.
Alrighty, let's come back to the program,
the C# programme that we
we just made.
So we just talked about libraries.
So we have this splash kit library that
has the pre-made functions that we can
use to then, for example,
for this red line.
So you can use this red line,
we call it a method.
which is similar to a function,
but we call it a method.
A method you can use to print this hello
world.
So can anyone tell me what this action is
called in our,
using our programming terminology?
So when we use this red line to print
something,
When we use this method,
what is the verb that we have introduced
in P3?
Two.
a method call, right?
Yes, exactly.
So we say we call this method.
It's a method call. Yeah,
we call the method.
So when we use a method,
we use the word calling. So.
Using this with a value,
because every method, basically,
most of them, well...
No, not all of them.
When you use a method,
is a method called a method.
And for some of the method, for example,
this, if you, if you remove, oh,
it can actually,
can Red Line take a blank?
It actually does.
So some of the functions,
some of the methods,
they need something in there to be able
to run. For example, if for this red line,
if you don't input anything,
it doesn't really make sense because it's
not printing anything. For red line,
it does create a new line.
Then that's all it
all it does.
So in order for us to print any real
stuff that we want to print,
we want to show,
we need to put something in there.
Can you guys let me know what is the
terminology that we put it in there?
It can be a lot of some different answers.
Expression, yes. Yes, argument, yes.
Expression, yes.
Is it argument?
So sometimes it's a little bit different
to tell the difference with expression
and arguments.
So the difference is that arguments will
go inside a method. So you have a method,
whatever inside there is can be.
an argument. And for expression,
take it as a value.
Correct me if I'm wrong, Ben,
but I think for me,
my understanding is that expression is
more for me more like a value. So in here,
it can be an argument because you put it
in a
a method, right?
And the method used this argument to run
itself. And also it can be an expression,
because if I'm putting hello world, again,
if I'm putting hello world there,
hello world itself is a value,
it's a string value, right?
So it means something.
It's a real value, so we call it, we can,
it can be an expression,
we can call it expression,
we can call it an argument,
but there's is difference between them.
Okay,
there's like a slight different this one,
Mm.
right? If we look at that definition,
whatever you're passing to a function
that is an argument, right?
Or a parameter to that call.
For something to be an expression,
we normally would say that it produces
some form of a value.
And so you can have something like X is
equal to, you know, 2 + 10, right?
Or X is equal to you calling another
function.
So that would technically be a definition
of an expression where you're doing
something.
But what you saw there with the right
line, that's a procedure called,
method called, function called,
whatever you want to call it.
Yep.
Thank you.
And then we have this hollow world, so...
We have another, so say for example,
in red line,
we can print hello world here.
We can also print some different stuff.
For example, if I want to print a number,
we can do it.
I can print any numbers that I want.
So I can print 73. So for this method,
it can take a number to print or it can
take a string to
To do so, but for some of the cases,
for example, if I, if I do,
what is a good one? So,
if I declare a variable, int a equals to.
That's a good one, equals to five,
and we have another string named John,
and we have a...
And some.
So then...
If I want to add them together.
Last name.
Does it work?
So if I want to make the sum,
adding an integer and add a string
together, will it work?
Exactly. So Michael says no,
because in programming, especially, well,
not for all the languages.
So you already know some of the languages,
they take different data types together.
So we have a concept of data type here.
We have different types.
of data to make sure that all the
programmes work correctly in case it
corrupts, right?
So we have different data types.
For example, we have numbers.
Inside numbers,
we also have different type of numbers.
You may notice that we have integers,
we have
Double and we have floats and all
different sort of numbers,
and we also have string,
which is a list of words that we can use,
and we also have char,
which is characters,
which is a single letter that.
or single symbol that we can use.
It just takes 11.
Of the letters,
and we also have what other data types do
you know?
Can you guys give me any examples except
for numbers, integers, and string?
Boolean, yeah, exactly.
Boolean is true or false is another is
another type of is another data type in
programming language.
So we have all these different data types.
We don't mix them together when we do
programming. For this
For this method, when in the background,
when the programmers make this pre-made
methods,
whatever goes inside of the method,
they will define the data type that can
go inside of this method.
So for this red line, it takes numbers,
it takes strings, it can also take,
let me see if it takes true or false. Yes,
it takes true or false. If we do.NET run,
we can test it. We can always test it. So
Okay.
Give me a warning, ignore that,
we see that true is has been printed here,
so it can take these all these different
data types,
but for some of the but for some of the
other methods you need to pay attention
to what kind of...
Data, it can pass into the method. Also,
with things like this,
when you try to add some things together
or trying to do some calculations,
some different data types cannot work
together because this...
Data type integer is sum is an integer,
so when you assign the value to an
Yeah.
integer,
you must ensure that both on the left
hand side and on the right hand side,
they are all the same data type,
so that is something we need to pay
attention to.
when we do our own programming.
Is there any questions around data types,
this and all other concepts around this?
Well, if nobody has any questions, well,
that hey, we got one question.
Yeah.
What are the questions? Oh, salmon, yeah,
salmon.
Yeah, actually,
can we use the type costing method to
convert the data type in a one similar
data type to run our code?
That is actually a very good question.
You can convert the value,
but you don't actually convert the data
type of a variable. For example, when you,
when we do this,
when we first introduce a variable here,
I hope, I hope we all on the same place,
we all understand what a variable is.
A variable is the thing that we can,
we give it a name and we can change its
value. So it's changing,
so it's called variable.
And when we define the variable,
we define the data type,
then A will always be an integer. Yes,
there are different methods that can
change.
Can we change? We can only cast.
What?
Yu.
on right now,
type costing would mean you're trying to
convert a value from one form to another,
not necessarily, you know, translating it.
Yeah.
we probably won't go, yeah,
probably won't go that deep.
Let's say when you define, oh, sorry,
when you define a variable,
Okay.
the type is fixed. But this number five,
you can, for example, if you have,
which is one of the examples you will see
in your tasks,
You have double B, which equals to 3.14.
Right now, B is a double, A is an integer.
You cannot convert A itself to a double,
but you can convert the value of A to a
double and store in B,
so there are two ways to do it: you can
either take...
The value itself, you can.
If I need to call convert,
that comes another the question again.
So if I want to use convert,
I need to use using static system dot
convert.
I need to call that library.
We need to refer to that library and we
can use the convert function here,
convert method here.
So we can do two things. We can do either.
Turn this literal,
turn this actual value to a to a double,
we can do B equals to convert to double 5.
And we can also do...
B = 2 converts to double a.
which turns, these two are the same,
right? It all turns the five,
which is the value of A,
to a double that can be stored in the
double variable B.
So I hope that answers your question.
you cannot change the data type of the
variable itself,
but you can convert the value of that
similar data type that is convertible.
A lot of times you will see strings and
numbers can be convertible as well.
Help.
All the characters in the back end,
there's a number anyways.
Yeah,
just want to add another thing that right
now,
when we're talking about time costing,
now I know this might be a bit more
detailed, I guess.
Don't really want to go too much in
detail, but for those who are interested,
Mm.
you may want to look at how variables,
how these, okay, not really variables,
how these values are actually
representing your memory.
Right, so when you try to run a program,
what do you think would happen?
Everything is loaded into the Ram,
and in the Ram things are in binary,
and then think about how your computer
identifies what value at any given
location is what type, right?
Because at the end of the day,
you're looking at characters,
you're looking at strings,
you're looking at...
you know, doubles, floats, long integers,
integers, unsigned integers, all of them,
they have a particular definition and
that type actually tells you how you can
interpret those values in binary, right?
So we don't really want to go into too
much detail,
but there are ways of converting from one
time to another.
And there are also pitfalls of trying to
convert from.
one form to another that is not
compatible, right? So for example,
if you work with C,
you may try and convert from characters
to integers and you'll see what actually
happens, right?
So A would translate to 65 and so on,
right? So it's a long story.
So if you're interested,
you may want to read up on that as well.
Alex.
YEE.
Okay,
I'm looking at the discussion that we are
having.
To get a clear,
cleaner way to get a number from user
input. OK.
So I hope that's clear and that answers
Salman's question. And yes,
thanks for Ben introducing some further
readings. Yep,
that you know that it only in the end,
at the end of the day,
Yeah.
they are all binary numbers.
So you can cut. Yeah.
Yeah, and yeah, sorry, Alex,
one more thing, right? So you might, yeah,
No, no, all good, all good, yeah.
yeah,
so you might also want to look and look
at that two other terms that I think we
did introduce back in like 5,
six years ago when SAAD one or two as
well.
I'm not sure if you'd be using that now,
but you can look into what implicit
casting means and what explicit casting
means.
And so,
there are two different ways of doing
that, right?
Yeah, we do have, yeah, no, all good,
all good. We do have the static,
Sorry, back to you, Alex.
we do have casting,
I think in week six or seven. Yeah,
we still, we are still doing that. Yeah,
the, the, that's one of my favorite,
Ah, doing better.
favourite tasks, but it's gone,
but the casting is still there.
But anyways,
later you will know how to cast.
One type to another as well, so yeah,
I saw a very good discussion on user
inputs around user inputs on all,
and let's so we can take it from
introducing user inputs, so...
For now,
whatever we are doing is just working for
us. I mean, the programmers.
We can change something and we can output
a lot of things to the terminal,
which the users of this software can see,
but they can only see it.
There are no interactions.
they cannot decide anything.
So it's literally just showing,
it's just a postcard.
You can only see things on it,
but you cannot do things using that.
So if I'm creating something, for example,
a price tag, we can input a price.
Then, output to show to other people,
then we need to take in the inputs from
the user, so...
Let's take, let me be lazy here,
because I never, never remembers.
How those, how those things are?
That's how I cannot using static splash
kit. OK,
so now I can use the splash kit library
methods, so...
Now,
if I want to output the name of a person,
but I want to let the person enter their
own name and output it.
So I can declare a string name here.
Then I can take user inputs.
So I can take
There are.
Two ways to do it.
Sometimes you can make a temporary string.
To store values,
so you can say you can assign the value
to the temporary string first,
so you can see it equals to read line.
Wei.
Police.
input your name.
This doesn't sound like English, right?
Enter your name. OK,
I'll give you a space,
just make it better,
and you can you can do name equals to
temp.
That's firstly,
we introduce a variable to store the
value temporarily,
and then we assign the value to the
actual variable that we wanted to store,
or we can just save this step.
We can directly say...
We'll comment it out.
We can just use,
we can grab this line and put it here.
These are the same, because by all means,
it's just passing this value to the
variable, so...
We can save it and we can run it.
Buildfield.
Is there anything that I did wrong?
No overload.
Right now,
this is like one really good lesson in
Okay.
debugging as well. OK,
hang on before you solve it, Alex. Now,
You're right, yeah.
looking at that error,
is there anyone who can help us debug
this?
Mm, it's a very good, it's a very typical.
Yeah.
Do you need an underscore?
Is it the same as in C,
between read and line?
If you just like misname the method.
Uh, no, you said we can we can try that,
uh, so you you are saying uh this right?
Yeah, so in C, it's...
Yeah, it's read, it's read,
read and the score line, yeah.
Yeah, read underscore line, but...
Case for two-sharp.
Red line, you will see,
you probably see another another error
there. Let's do it.
So, we,
it's never a bad idea to just try it.
Okay, so see,
this give you another error saying that
the name red line does not exist in the
current context.
So this actually indicates that the
method name is wrong.
So now you know this error means the
method name is wrong.
So for that one,
no overload for method takes one argument.
That's another type of error.
So let's revert this back to the error
that we had.
Okay, let me run it again,
so it has this error, so...
No overload for method,
we ignore the word overload now.
So basically means no method of read line
takes one argument,
meaning that read line is not taking one
argument. What does that mean?
Do you have any idea around this?
Um...
I think the...
Jeremy, yes, but close, close,
but not exactly.
Sorry, were you saying, were you talking?
Yeah, continue. Sorry,
not going to interrupt.
There's no place for user to input.
Yeah.
Well,
there is this scenario we try to let
users to put input.
If this one runs successfully,
the user will have the user will be able
to input things in the terminal.
Yes.
So Jeremy gave exactly the correct answer
to fix that. Yeah.
Hang on, hang on, hang on. Yeah,
what exactly is the difference, Jeremy?
Yes,
so Jeremy was suggesting that we remove.
Thing in between.
Yep, no parameters.
to use this.
Yes.
We'll put it here, name.
Coach to reply.
So,
this means this was saying that it will
put in one argument there,
and this was putting that there's no
argument there.
The error message was saying,
"No overload for method readline takes
one argument" means this method doesn't
take one argument. Any chance it may take.
..
Two arguments.
Are you able to tell?
From this error message.
Yes, so BARDAN is giving more.
It's a close answer.
Yes, yes,
because this red line is not taking any
arguments, but how can you find that?
You can only find that by going to the
documentation to see exactly how many
arguments can be taken here.
What we can tell from this error message
is that
They don't take one argument,
so some of the methods they take.
Um...
Two arguments, and they can take three, 4,
as many as it is defined. For example,
when we're looking back at the code to
write to fill a triangle, you see,
we're actually taking five arguments
there. We're taking a color.
We're taking the.
the length, the width, the starting point,
the end point, we take five of them,
we take 5 arguments there.
So if we just give the colour here,
we say fill rectangle colour orange,
it may give you the exact error message
here. So
With that error message,
what we can do is to go to the
documentation and to find out how many
arguments the method actually takes.
So if ever you have encountered such an
error, you want to find out, search for,
because we are using Splash Kit,
all the explanations,
all the methods are explained,
for example, like this.
In Splashkit.io, the documentation,
so we can search for this read line.
Help.
Red Line.
Reading texts, read line.
It's not.
WRIGHT line.
Great, uh, Lori.
So utilities, okay, red line, so...
In C#, we can see it here.
So you can see if you are interested,
you click on that.
This object oriented way to use that.
Okay, use of fruit line.
And you can see that in the definition of
the red line,
it actually takes no arguments here.
So you just use it as it is.
So the way we want to do it,
but we do want to prompt the user,
we want to
Because if we, let's just remove this.
We don't put anything in there.
It doesn't look good.
Because now you see there's a cursor here
that I can actually type in.
But if you are a user of this software,
you don't know what's happening now,
right? You do want to print,
you want to make something so the user
knows what you want them to do.
So,
the way Jeremy has already got the answer,
a fix that we can use the right line,
right line, okay,
use right line to remove this.
The first red line,
please enter your name.
Then we ask user to input. So this way,
it will work way better.
See, we have now this message,
please enter your name. I will put Alex.
And then my name is stored in there.
And another thing we need to learn from
this PEP3,
this week's module is that because we've
run the programme runs in a sequence,
right?
So basically it just means runs top from
top to top down to the bottom.
So the sequence is a very important thing.
The order is very important.
If we put this red line,
in the bottom of this.
It's still there,
the command is still there,
the method call is still there, it just...
Happens in different order,
then this actually means it's not
functioning ideally, so we hit.net run,
sorry, we hit.net run again,
it runs this line first,
it takes the input first, right, then...
If you put anything, hi.
Oh, sorry. Nothing here. Hi.
Then it outputs please enter your name.
Then you can you find out you are already
out of the programme and it means nothing.
So be mindful when you're writing the
codes.
The programme runs in a sequence from top
to bottom. There is way
ways to change that.
And that's another topic for maybe next
week.
We know that we can use different control
flows to lead them to different ways.
Ready?
Okay, any questions around inputs,
taking a method course, and
Data types around here.
Okay, cool. Let's moving on.
So we covered data type,
we covered function calls,
we covered sequence.
Then, yeah,
we're talking about a sequence.
when sometimes when we just want to make
different directions. For example,
we want to make things complicated.
So if I enter my name,
so if my computer wants to know
more about me. All right?
And if it's somebody else that's the
computer realizes, oh,
someone else is using my computer,
then output a message saying that, oh,
this is not your computer. So we want the.
the programme to run different ways based
on different situations.
Can we achieve that?
How should we achieve that?
Do you know the terminology that makes
this possible?
Push.
YEE.
Well, yeah,
you can make different brand different
branches on Gits to do different things
for you, but in terms of programming, say,
for example, if I want to see...
I want to see if the user inputs my name.
Now, we ask the user to input a name.
If the user inputs my name, it will say,
Please, please use this computer.
If the user inputs some other name,
it outputs something else.
Any idea what's the terminology to
achieve this or what would you use to be
able to achieve that?
So, we output red line, we output line,
we output line, not this, we output,
please use this computer.
and we may want to use something else if
the user enters something else.
Mm.
Please use another one, another computer.
So if we just have this sequence of
programme running,
both of this will be input,
will be outputted, right?
But we want the computer to be able to
choose one of them based on different
names that's been inputted.
Yeah, we can. Yes,
we're definitely going to compare them.
So, we have this, uh...
Name already.
Right, and.
We can also, yeah, because...
I'm asking the computer to cheque against
my name, so I can make a constant here.
So before we introduce the variable,
which we can change the values anytime.
So we can change a equals to a equals to
6.
We can say A equals to 7.
We can always change the value of A
because it's a variable.
We can also make something that doesn't
change.
That we call a constant.
Do you know,
do you guys know how to make a constant?
What should we do if we want to declare a
constant?
I'll give you,
and the answers right there in the
Yeah, switch.
question.
Exactly.
Okay, we can do consts, consts, say, oh.
M.
What is a good verbal name, Alex?
Equals to ohh,
we usually we will do um owner.
Oh, no.
Name equals to Alex. Okay, yeah,
I think Jeremy made a good point.
I may use the...
Oh, not is not owner name.
What is this in hex? Let me check.
Constants.
constants. So the syntax,
if you forgot about the syntax, just, oh,
we need to define the, yeah,
we don't forget about the data type,
like what I did.
So I need to make a string, a string.
on the name equals to Alex.
Then I can compare this using if
statement. So we call it a control flow.
So control flow will make the computer,
instead of running in a sequence from top
to bottom,
we can branch in those based on different
situations. So we can see
If.
If name equals to owner name.
Right, we can do.
I can put that.
Oh, I missed another brackets.
And we can do else.
Please use another computer. Okay,
don't forget another pair of brackets.
So now we have two different branches.
If the name entered is the same with my
name, and yes,
use two equal marks to compare with it.
So one equal
Sign means assigning the value,
so this changes the value of the variable.
Two of them means...
It's comparison, so if left-hand side,
right-hand side is exactly the same.
we output this. If it's not the case,
we output this. So let's test this.
So if I enter my name, I'll put Alex here.
it will say, please use this computer.
And also a very good point has been
raised is that when user inputs something,
you cannot control whether they,
sometimes they just like to, for example,
if I type in lowercase with the 1st
letter not capitalized,
It won't identify that. It won't know.
So when we do string comparisons,
they compare literally exactly,
we're considering the case, right?
So if we want to ignore that, we can put
To lower.
Too to lower.
No.
We can call the to lower function.
To make this right-hand side.
to be lower case and once we turn this
right hand side to be lower case,
don't forget to turn the right hand side
to be.
to be lowercase as well.
So what we can do is we can
We can do, we can make the name equals to.
To lower name?
goes to lower name or we can put this to
lower right at the beginning.
So like what we do before,
it turns the name and the owner name both
to all lowercase characters.
So in that way, when we're comparing,
they are all already lowercase letters.
So, we can do this,
and to lower does not exist.
What does it mean to lower?
Hello.
It's called to lowercase. Okay,
it's not to lower, to lowercase.
Okay, that should do the trick.
Okay, then let's see.
I got the wrong function name,
and then I'll enter my name.
I will just mix that a little bit up.
Yeah,
so even though I type in different case,
different uppercase and lowercase,
it will all turn them into lowercase.
And when they compare, it will show, oh,
they are the same.
it will output the relevant message
saying, please use this computer.
This is, yeah, yep, no, all good.
Alex, okay. Sorry,
I just had one more thing over here,
right? There's actually a very,
very common mistake that a lot of people
actually make when starting out, right?
So on line number 22,
remove one of those equal to signs.
Sorry?
On line number 22, right,
just remove one of those equal to signs.
22.
Twenty-two? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, okay,
now let's run the programme and see what
happens.
Sure.
Ohh, wait, yeah, there you go,
just clear the console and then OK to
Yeah.
that.
Mm.
So.
Well, we were gone, gone, gone,
cannot convert string to bool,
where is it?
Yeah, okay.
So usually what really happens is that
when you have like a variable on the left,
right,
and you have like another value on the
right, it's actually very,
very easy to end up assigning that value,
right? And when you assign that,
Yeah.
Yu.
what happens is that that entire
expression becomes true.
Right, so if you're working with C,
that actually you'll see that quite often,
right?
So please be very careful with that.
An assignment operator is not the same as
a comparison operator.
Yep.
Okay, thanks, Ben, for adding that too.
Yep, so some four is some other languages.
If you put a string in there,
you can just automatically take it as a
Stream that you can just automatically
take.
true.
Ohh, good, and yeah,
this is this is if else statement.
This is Fees else.
Someone, you got a question?
Yeah,
can you please shed some light on the
nested if statements?
And my other question is like how we can
Yep.
format the output like we did do in
Python F strings.
So...
Nested if statement is, for now,
we have only one branch. So if A, we do.
If, oh, let me type in a comment, if true.
Would you a?
else we do beat, right?
It is only one branching,
so we can do nested if, so inside of this,
if...
condition A is met,
we can have more branches.
That is called what Simon just asked,
called nested if.
So what if I want to branch in a little
bit more? So computer say, oh,
it's your name is Alex. So now wants
make sure we ask first name,
maybe then we ask a last name.
So we can change name,
we can change string, last.
Last name. OK,
now if first name is passed,
we want to we want to cheque last name.
So if the last name match, we can have.
If last name is the same, we do something,
and if the last name is not.
not the same, we can go to another way.
So we can nest another if inside,
if executive,
the blocks that's going to be executed.
So we can put if, if last name,
Equals to.
Wu, that's my name, and we can do.
Right line.
Please use this computer.
And we can do else.
Uh, RAILEY, are you same?
First name.
OK, so...
Now, this becomes...
Uh...
This becomes, if...
The condition is met, we have second.
Second.
If right and if true, we go.
A.
True.
If true, then I.
And if the first one is true,
but the second one is not true.
Where can you go?
Else.
that goes to something else to see,
for example.
So you can you can nest as many if else
statement in there,
as long as they have another if,
they can have another if that is called
nested if. So
It doesn't look very good and it tends to
create a lot of questions and issues and
it's quite hard to debug, to be honest,
because you have one inside each other
and then another one you need to check.
So yeah, but this is the nested if else.
And apart from...
If else,
you can nest actually any other control
control flows. So, can that tell me,
other than if else,
is there any other control flows existing?
Yes, while, yes, exactly. We have while,
which is a loop. Yes,
we have while and we have if else.
We have we also have a for loop, right?
There's there are and we have switch.
So switch is actually a good thing to use
if you have many
different situations. Yeah, and oh,
this is called nested if,
but you can have many cases. For example,
if we remove this.
We comment it out. Usually I don't...
delete much just in case I change my mind
and I need to grab them later.
So I comment it out. So when you try to,
so if you use a comment,
it won't be executed.
If you hit control plus slash this key.
This key, so control plus slash, it will,
and you select all the lines,
it will quickly turn the comment.
on and off.
So it will be easier to do multi-line
comments. Okay.
So that's just a shortcut that I often
use. So you can have different situations.
I'll just remove this actually.
Yeah, I have one.
I can share one of the example where
Yep.
someone can easily understand that. Like,
it means like if you turn 18,
you can drive. But however,
if you turn more than 80, you can't drive.
So one situation we can.
Usually say that, like, uh,
it's a nested in one case, you, you,
Yeah, so if you have used this.
you can drive,
but the other situation you can't.
Yeah, exactly.
So if you have another situation,
if you have another situation called to
lower Ben and then...
So these two,
they are not nested because they are
actually different cases.
So if you have three cases,
Yeah.
you can have two if and then an else.
So this is, they won't be called nested.
So if it's inside each other, it's nested,
yeah.
YEE.
Makes sense? Awesome. Okay,
that's so far for control flow and we use
an if-else statement to demonstrate
control flow.
Is there any questions around this?
OK,
so that's so much for our demonstration
for this week.
It's very good that you guys have been
driven this,
been driven this demonstration so far,
because otherwise I don't think we would
make it to control flow. That's very good.
So next week we can have more
Time to focus on the practise test, OK?
So, any questions so far, please raise it.
If no,
we will actually go to the one-on-one
help session.
Yeah, I just have a real quick one.
The tests,
Yeah, sure.
will they be covering syntax of C++ and
C#?
Mm.
Won't cover syntax-wise,
it won't cover C because we we're not
touching C, we only do a compiling,
so syntax-wise, C no, but C sorry, C no,
but C possibly.
Okay,
so when you say we're not covering C,
what do you what do you mean by that?
So you are not,
you want to be asking to write any code
in C, but you may be asked to say, oh,
yeah, yeah, for the test.
For the test or for, okay, cool,
no problem. But not like,
not for the entire unit, right?
Just because I've just submitted Module 3
Yeah, so bye.
Mm.
and the majority of the code that I wrote
for that was in C, not C#.
Mhm.
Is that an issue?
Yes, because, yeah, sorry,
because you see modules 3,
Yes, okay.
the P3 sequence is asking you to use a
sharp, right? If I remember it correctly.
Yeah, I've.
I've had some confusion about that
because there's two versions of the
Mmh.
programmer's guide.
There's V1 and there's just programmers.
guide.
Um...
V1 does have.
like a full section there about C.
That's for P2, right?
When you do hello world,
you got both C# and the C,
but in but in P3, the simple calculator,
OK.
let me see, that's.net and house drawing,
that's.net.
Yeah, they're both,
let me share my screen. They are both.
C# ones. So this is sequencing data,
this is P3, right?
So you have all this guided tours,
you finish all those, those are all in C#.
And let me cheque activities. You will,
the code you are going to write is one of
the test your knowledge.
So if you click test your knowledge,
it was like a journey savings calculator.
Yeah, so that's, it looks like you're,
yeah, you're looking at V1.
The.
Is the.
The programmer's guide that is linked to
in some of the tasks,
YEE.
like the hyperlinks in the tasks.
Yeah, let me go to OnTrack.
Is.
Different.
So...
Actually, that may go to test.
And a lot of those examples are in C.
You mean P3, right? Let me quickly check.
Teh.
Ask list.
Oh, it's not loading. Okay,
let me get back to you. Oh, okay,
it's loading now. So P3,
download task sheets. That's P3.
So that's the one, right? Got it.
No, that's still me.
I'll show you.
Yep, maybe can you send the link here?
And I don't know if I've been working off
of a, like,
an outdated version of the field guide or
something, but...
Um...
Should be using the way one, I think,
Alex.
Yeah, I think this is a different version,
actually.
Um, we told that that this thing was,
yeah, um,
See, that's the...
I think the book was actually updated.
I think we three,
I think we want to use V1 still.
So it actually starts with we want the
programmers on guide, right?
Yeah, yeah, we're using the V1. Yeah,
this is actually C,
but whatever you've done, leave it there.
Submit, you have submitted, right?
Yeah, yeah, I've submitted uh past three,
and yeah, I've got...
Right, it explain, yeah.
Yeah, like I said,
the majority of the code that I wrote was
in C,
because that's what the guide references.
Yeah, that's that's C exactly, yes. So,
explain that to a this task should be
fine,
and it's not very difficult to switch
from C to C# for now.
I think it should be fine for this task.
YEE.
Okay, but in the next couple of weeks,
I should probably go back and recover
some C# stuff because that's what the
test is going to be on.
YEE.
That's what you're telling me, right?
Yes, yes.
Okay, no problem.
Yeah, and if I will,
I will actually double cheque with unit
Learning is fun, guys.
chair if you get, because after week 5,
we are actually going back to C.
Yeah.
So what you're saying is I'm like 2 weeks
ahead.
So.
Yes.
Exactly, exactly.
Look, I mean, to be honest, right,
at the end of the day,
this unit is not called Introduction to C
or Introduction to C,
it's called Introduction to Programming.
You are still learning the coding concept,
Mm.
Yeah.
YEE.
at least the basics, right? So, yeah,
it should be fine, right?
At least you are learning something. Now,
as far as the book is concerned,
we are using V1,
so if you end up using the latest version.
That might be a slight problem,
but it should be OK.
I think Alex will get back to you right
after speaking with Aaron, so, so yeah,
Yeah, yeah,
I'll speak with the unit chair. Yeah,
for now.
because we are introduced now,
we introduce a little bit of C# because
we really want to start the journey a bit
earlier for preparation for the next
couple of units after this one.
So we introduce more,
a little bit more on C# now.
Mam.
Um...
But since you've basically finished,
you only have the PP4 for C# and then you
will go back to C.
Let me cheque with the unit chair,
see if we can just skip C# a bit.
No, no, no, it's fine. I can,
I can do ask for in C#,
Teh.
that won't be an issue.
Sure, thanks. But anyways,
I will cheque that and get back to you.
Yeah, yeah,
it might be worthwhile posting that on
Sure, sure, yeah.
the Teams channel. Like,
this is the definitive link everyone
Right.
should be using this version of the field
guide.
Yep, yep, yep, sure, sure, sure.
This,
this was mentioned initially as well in
the first week.
I guess we are using week one,
but it's OK if that was not made clear.
I think that's OK,
Sorry, I must have missed that then, yeah.
if that was missed somewhere,
maybe you can add like another notice or
announcement in the channels to help
everyone out. So, because of that, I.
Yes,
we have to speak with the image of course.
We also have one more question from
Salman.
Yep.
Feel free to unmute yourself.
Yes, please.
Someone, you have your hand up.
If you're speaking,
please unmute yourself. Yeah,
there you go.
Yeah,
my question was that like I raised
earlier about like how we can format the
output like we usually do in Python with
F strings.
F3 is OK, Python F3 is.
Yeah.
A string literal,
so it's called string interpolation in C#.
Yeah,
I was just looking for the formatting if
we can format the output in C or C#.
Yeah, we can do that, yeah. So,
string literals, this is actually very,
very similar, right? So,
instead of using that F character,
you can use the dollar sign. So,
I'm going to share this link over here
that you can use. There you go.
Mm.
So this is from Microsoft Docs, right?
So C# reference.
Yeah.
Things that are like the actual literals
on Python, no problem.
Thank you very much for your assistance.
Cool, thanks for that, and.
Any other questions?
If not,
we have a little bit of time that we can
do some quick calls.
Please leave your name in the chat if you
need us to call you.
Otherwise, I'll see you guys next week.
Yes.
Yep. Now,
since we only have around like 10 more
minutes left for this session,
if there's anyone who has like a longer
query,
be that we might not be able to help here.
I mean,
I guess we also have help up sessions
that you guys can attend. Right. But yes,
we'll definitely try to help you out if
we have time here. So.
Yeah,
please list out your names with the query
and I think we'll call you individually.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks, all.
I think so. That's interesting,
the author you want. Oh my god.
Ha ha.
AZIZI.
Yeah.
All right, thanks, people. One hour,
15 minutes, right? There we go.
At the execution, I will give you a call.
Yes, you know,
maybe we can do it live over here.
That might be better.
It might help others as well.
Um...
Tran Sen, help us.
Feel free to unmute yourself.
We can actually discuss it just in here.
Uh, yeah, sorry.
Yep, no, all good, yep.
This is this is more about the part two
of the task,
where for the is it task three or is it
task four?
M.
I can't remember when we were doing, yeah,
yeah, we do the execution.
Yeah, P4, you got a HUAN execution, yeah.
Mm.
I'm gonna be confused about doing the...
Yeah, like the hand execution,
because in a test,
we wouldn't be doing a hand execution.
So I think I just want more clarity on
how best we go for it.
Because like the simple ones,
I can get it,
but that one was a little bit extra in a
sense.
Oh, you mean the second one, right?
We have two questions. Okay, that one.
YEE.
Mm.
OK,
so my my suggestion is you can actually
try to run it in the.
In VS code, so copy paste the code,
try to run it and see what happens if you
are confused about running that.
So hand execution is about running that
your understanding about the code itself.
So because the band,
I'm thinking that because the recording
is on.
Mhm.
But we we don't discuss this task
specifically in the meeting.
Yeah, of course, of course, yeah, yeah,
we don't discuss task specific meeting,
but we can definitely give like a very
general example that helps everyone.
Yep.
Yeah, OK. Let's say,
let's say for a simple loop,
Exactly, yep.
I range from I to 5.
Yep, perfect, Andrew.
Mm.
And then, like, what are we slashing off?
Are we slashing off the ones that goes
through the loop and then stops where the
codes no longer?
OK, again,
that might be getting closer to the
YEE.
actual question, but...
Now, let me quickly, actually let me do,
what is the for loop?
I'll just do a while loop.
Let's, let's do a for loop. It's OK,
let's do a for loop. Yep, and just let,
Before? Yeah, sure.
yeah,
just while Alex is setting things up
right,
I'll just quickly go of what exactly my
hand execution is about, right? So,
normally when you look at code, right,
we don't just want you to execute the
code and understand how what it's doing
or get the output.
We also would like you to.
Read the code and figure out what it
might do before you even run it, right?
So,
hand execution helps you with that with
that particular thing. Now,
there are different formats, I guess,
that you can follow. Now,
we have something that's a template of
sorts that's given in touch sheet,
as well as like in the workbook,
the programmer's guide that you can
follow.
But generally speaking,
a hand execution is basically there to
help you understand how the control flow
actually goes through in your program,
right? So if you come into a loop,
what is the value of that variable i in
this example, right?
What happens when you enter the loop?
How is that?
I or that where the loop conquer that I
changed.
What happens if you manipulate that value
inside the loop, right?
So a lot of these things come into
picture and it's just there to help you
understand how different variables
interact or different operations actually
affect your programme loop or your entire
programme sequence.
Now, with the hand execution,
I understand that, you know,
different tutors might have different
expectations,
but as long as you are able to explain
what is actually happening with each
iteration, it should be good. Now, Alex,
yeah, it's a very simple one.
Alex should be able to, yeah,
walk it through, yeah.
Yu.
Yeah, I'll just work through this.
So for hand execution,
you need to hand execution two things.
One is the variable,
the change of values of the variables.
The other one is the output.
You need to do these two things.
You are able to see my whiteboard, right?
Mhm.
Yes, yes.
Yeah, awesome.
So, we starting, so for now,
there's only one variable, which is I,
so we'll put it I here, which is the,
this is the, this is the change of values,
Yep.
this is this would be the output. So,
now we assign the initial value of 0,
Zero. I think. Zero. Yeah.
right? So, we'll just put it 0 here,
and then the condition is 1I smaller than
four.
we increase I at the end of the loop.
So now when entering into the loop,
Uh-huh.
because now I is 0, right?
So the terminal, exactly,
Sleeping zero.
and it fits the condition.
So it will output 0 here.
Yep.
Now the loop ends, right?
We need to increase I.
Yeah, it goes back.
So, we cross this zero and increase one,
so now I equals to one, right?
Teh.
Then we cheque the condition.
Mm.
Now, one is smaller than four,
which is true. We still run this.
Yep.
So we print I, which is now one,
because it's a red line,
it creates a new line after running this.
So we go into a new line.
Yep.
Then we increase I again.
Then because it's the value has been
Yep.
updated.
we cross it out, then we put 2 here.
Then we go through two smaller than four,
Mhm.
we output this. Increase I again,
now it's three, right? Three,
we cheque the condition again,
three smaller than four,
and then we output 3 in here.
Yep.
Then we need to increase I again.
Now it's four. So 4, we cheque 4,
Yep.
not smaller than four.
Four is actually equal. Yeah,
So we stop there.
we stop here. Then close it off,
then it's the whole hand execution.
Okay.
Okay,
I'd like to add like one more thing in
the mix, right?
So this might make things a bit more
interesting. Alex,
if you can change that four to let's say
8, just double the value. Yeah, yeah,
yeah.
Yeah. Oh, you want to do? Yeah.
Let's change the four to an 8 in the for
loop.
Yeah.
Right, and insert right line I,
let's do right line I plus plus.
I plus plus.
Yeah, okay. Now,
can anyone help us with the output?
I will.
Erase, where, where's my eraser?
So, instead of printing...
When it's zero, then it increases at zero;
it increased by the value one,
so you when it is when I is 0,
then the right line will be one;
the output will be one, sorry.
Okay, let's write that, yep.
So, yeah, so we just do,
we do it one line by line. So,
Yeah.
we start from zero and then it fits,
then I plus plus. Now,
we already changing it to one,
so we put one in here and we output this.
Yeah.
OK, now we increase,
because it's end of the loop,
we need to increase I again, it goes to.
Ah, okay, I see now. I think, I think,
I think what's tripping me was I read the
Yeah, there you go, right?
And I will cheque the condition, uh,
there you go, yeah.
whole thing.
Yeah.
Mm.
Including the increment,
so it goes line by line and that,
Yeah.
M.
so it means a condition and then goes
down and then go cheques if still less
than eight, then it goes on.
OK, hang on, hang on,
I'm gonna stop you right there.
Please don't give us give us the solution
over here, right?
That's a task that others might also be
working on,
OK.
Yep.
but I hope what we did in this example
gives you an idea.
Yeah, yeah, OK. It gives me, yeah,
it gives me a lot better sense now.
Alright.
Perfect.
Alright, I think,
I think that that the the the semicolon
thing trips me up,
like how you read the whole thing there.
Yeah.
Yeah, remember one thing, right?
So when you work with a for loop,
the structure is a bit different because
you have the loop increment also
happening inside that statement, right?
And whatever you do to I within the block
Mhm.
also impacts that loop, right?
So now when you have I plus plus here,
you directly go to 2 instead of 1.
Right? Now let's do one more thing, Alex.
After write line,
YEE.
or maybe just before write line,
I plus plus,
let's add I is equal to I plus 6.
Okay,
I just make the marking here because this
is what happens for I plus plus.
That's because we, the assignment,
Yeah.
the assigning the value is already done.
So the value of I actually changes.
Yeah.
Yep.
That's why.
So what would you like me to do?
Let's do one, let's do one thing. Yeah,
let's do one more thing, right?
So just before write line i plus plus,
just above that write line statement,
M.
let's do i is equal to i + 5.
Now, what do you think happens?
I equals to.
I + 5.
Oh, you know what? Let's do IC 5 + 6.
I mean, that might be better.
Right, yeah, that's interesting. OK, cool.
So now we do I and.
Yep, to 0, yep.
Right.
We still do form 0 outputs and smaller
than a, then what's the next one?
What's the next value of I?
Seven.
Yeah.
Oh, no, no, no, sorry, no, no, no, no, no.
No, no, no, no, no, think about it.
Yeah, so now it's zero, right?
Yeah.
So we have this i equals to 0,
i smaller than 8. Yep, and now...
Yep.
I mean, this year, yeah.
We go into the loop.
So now we increment it by 3 + 6.
So now I is 6 already, right?
Yes.
I become sex.
Yeah.
Ben.
This line.
Ahh.
And now that increments are one more,
so now I become 7.
Uh...
Yeah.
Right.
And the output.
Now, here's something very,
here's something very interesting.
Okay.
Hang on,
will the output be 6 or will the output
be 7? Now,
think about that very carefully.
The output will be 7.
That's a very big difference between I
and I. Think about it.
Mm.
Plus, plus I.
So you want to change it to plus plus I?
I means you use the value 1st and then
increment it.
I means you increment the value and then
use it.
Okay.
So when you have write line I,
you would actually print the value, right?
And then, and then you would increment it.
So what would that mean?
Yep.
So, we've...
Interesting. Let me see.
Yeah.
Think about it.
Uh, stick.
Actually, I think it's quite interesting.
Maybe we will,
I want to talk about this in the next
seminar as well.
Maybe, maybe get to the next time around,
but I actually means you use the value
Yeah.
and then increment the value, right?
Which is the which is exactly the reason
why when you start the for loop like this,
I'm actually comparing them all, right?
When you start a for loop,
you start with the value 0 and not the
M.
value one. I only impacts.
only comes picture after you use the
value, okay?
So use it first and then increment the
value. If you have it as R plus plus I,
you increment the value 1st and then use
it. So in this case,
the output would be 6, right?
Mhm.
Increment the value,
you become it becomes 6. Now,
Mm.
when you go back up,
or maybe just after write line,
I actually has become 7,
and then when you go back up to the
Yeah.
follow, it becomes 8.
Mhm.
Okay.
Yeah, alright, Alex.
YEE.
Cool. Yeah,
I really want to talk about this on the
next. It will be fun.
Yeah, yes, please. Thank you.
All right, perfect.
And then when you have one question,
Yeah.
why is it not seven?
Uh, you have a hand up? I am. Yeah.
Oh, okay.
I still see your hand up.
If you have a question,
please feel free to yourself.
It's not too good.
Yep, thank you.
Party.
Um...
So I think Liam's got a Liam's got a
question for.
Alright.
Uh.
What is that?
Oh.
Test your knowledge, yeah.
Oh, sorry, one second.
Yes, Sir, I'm back.
KUHL.
KY.
Yeah, sir, one of the, what is it,
the share my knowledge or test my
knowledge activity that I'm doing is the
simple calculator.
Mhm.
What I'm trying,
what I'm having an issue with is that
when the user inputs a value,
it's meant to be able to record the
smallest value the users inputted as well
as the largest input, but...
Mhm.
When I've assigned, or I've, yeah,
I've assigned the minimum value at with
Thank you.
the thing of 0,
and now when I add another value,
it doesn't update.